ME
       mt - control magnetic tape drive operation

SYNOPSIS
       mt [-h] [-f device] operation [count] [arguments...]

DESCRIPTION
       This  manual  page documents the tape control program mt.  mt performs the given operation, which must be one of the tape operations listed below,
       on a tape drive. The commands can also be listed by running the program with the -h option.

       Some operations optionally take an argument or repeat count, which can be given after the operation name and defaults to 1. The postfix k , M , or
       G can be used to give counts in units of 1024, 1024 * 1024, or 1024 * 1024 * 1024, respectively.

       The  available  operations  are listed below.  Unique abbreviations are accepted.  Not all operations are available on all systems, or work on all
       types of tape drives.

       fsf    Forward space count files.  The tape is positioned on the first block of the next file.

       fsfm   Forward space past count file marks, then backward space one file record.  This leaves the tape positioned on the last block  of  the  file
              that is count-1 files past the current file.

       bsf    Backward space count files.  The tape is positioned on the last block of the previous file.

       bsfm   Backward  space  past count file marks, then forward space one file record.  This leaves the tape positioned on the first block of the file
              that is count-1 files before the current file.

       asf    The tape is positioned at the beginning of the count file. Positioning is done by first rewinding the tape and then  spacing  forward  over
              count filemarks.

       fsr    Forward space count records.

       bsr    Backward space count records.

       fss    (SCSI tapes) Forward space count setmarks.

       bss    (SCSI tapes) Backward space count setmarks.

       eod, seod
              Space to end of valid data.  Used on streamer tape drives to append data to the logical end of tape.

       rewind Rewind the tape.

       offline, rewoffl, eject
              Rewind the tape and, if applicable, unload the tape.

       retension
              Rewind the tape, then wind it to the end of the reel, then rewind it again.

       weof, eof
              Write count EOF marks at current position.

       wset   (SCSI tapes) Write count setmarks at current position (only SCSI tape).

       erase  Erase the tape.

       status Print  status  information about the tape unit. (If the density code is "no translation" in the status output, this does not affect working                        
              of the tape drive.)                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                 
       seek   (SCSI tapes) Seek to the count block on the tape.  This operation is available on some Tandberg and Wangtek streamers and some SCSI-2  tape                        
              drives. The block address should be obtained from a tell call earlier.                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                 
       tell   (SCSI  tapes)  Tell  the  current  block  on tape.  This operation is available on some Tandberg and Wangtek streamers and some SCSI-2 tape                        
              drives.                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                 
       setpartition
              (SCSI tapes) Switch to the partition determined by count.  The default data partition of the tape is numbered zero. Switching partition  is
              available only if enabled for the device, the device supports multiple partitions, and the tape is formatted with multiple partitions.

       partseek
              (SCSI tapes) The tape position is set to block count in the partition given by the argument after count. The default partition is zero.

       mkpartition
              (SCSI  tapes)  Format  the tape with one (count is zero) or two partitions (count gives the size of the second partition in megabytes). The
              tape drive must be able to format partitioned tapes with initiator-specified partition size and partition support must be enabled  for  the
              drive.

       load   (SCSI tapes) Send the load command to the tape drive. The drives usually load the tape when a new cartridge is inserted. The argument count
              can usually be omitted. Some HP changers load tape n if the count 10000 + n is given (a special funtion in the Linux st driver).

       lock   (SCSI tapes) Lock the tape drive door.

       unlock (SCSI tapes) Unlock the tape drive door.

       setblk (SCSI tapes) Set the block size of the drive to count bytes per record.

       setdensity
              (SCSI tapes) Set the tape density code to count.  The proper codes to use with each drive should be looked up from the drive documentation.

       densities
              (SCSI tapes) Write explanation of some common density codes to standard output.

       drvbuffer
              (SCSI tapes) Set the tape drive buffer code to number.  The proper value for unbuffered operation is zero and "normal"  buffered  operation
              one. The meanings of other values can be found in the drive documentation or, in the case of a SCSI-2 drive, from the SCSI-2 standard.

       compression
              (SCSI  tapes)  The  compression within the drive can be switched on or off using the MTCOMPRESSION ioctl. Note that this method is not sup‐
              ported by all drives implementing compression. For instance, the Exabyte 8 mm drives use density codes to select compression.

       stoptions
              (SCSI tapes) Set the driver options bits for the device to the defined values. Allowed only for the superuser. The bits can be  set  either
              by ORing the option bits from the file /usr/include/linux/mtio.h to count, or by using the following keywords (as many keywords can be used
              on the same line as necessary, unambiguous abbreviations allowed):

              buffer-writes  buffered writes enabled

              async-writes   asynchronous writes enabled

              read-ahead     read-ahead for fixed block size

              debug          debugging (if compiled into driver)

              two-fms        write two filemarks when file closed

              fast-eod       space directly to eod (and lose file number)

              no-wait        don't wait until rewind, etc. complete

              auto-lock      automatically lock/unlock drive door

              def-writes     the block size and density are for writes

              can-bsr        drive can space backwards as well

              no-blklimits   drive doesn't support read block limits

              can-partitions drive can handle partitioned tapes

              scsi2logical   seek and tell use SCSI-2 logical block addresses instead of device dependent addresses

              sili           Set the SILI bit is when reading in variable block mode. This may speed up reading blocks shorter than the read byte  count.
                             Set  this  option  only if you know that the drive supports SILI and the HBA reliably returns transfer residual byte counts.
                             Requires kernel version >= 2.6.26.

              sysv           enable the System V semantics

       stsetoptions
              (SCSI tapes) Set selected driver options bits.  The methods to specify the bits to set are given above in  the  description  of  stoptions.
              Allowed only for the superuser.

stclearoptions
              (SCSI  tapes)  Clear  selected  driver  option bits.  The methods to specify the bits to clear are given above in description of stoptions.
              Allowed only for the superuser.

       stshowoptions
              (SCSI tapes) Print the currently enabled options for the device. Requires kernel version >= 2.6.26 and sysfs must be mounted at /sys.

       stwrthreshold
              (SCSI tapes) The write threshold for the tape device is set to count kilobytes. The value must be smaller than or equal to the driver  buf‐
              fer size. Allowed only for the superuser.

       defblksize
              (SCSI  tapes) Set the default block size of the device to count bytes. The value -1 disables the default block size.  The block size set by
              setblk overrides the default until a new tape is inserted.  Allowed only for the superuser.

       defdensity
              (SCSI tapes) Set the default density code. The value -1 disables the default density. The density set by setdensity overrides  the  default
              until a new tape is inserted. Allowed only for the superuser.

       defdrvbuffer
              (SCSI tapes) Set the default drive buffer code. The value -1 disables the default drive buffer code. The drive buffer code set by drvbuffer
              overrides the default until a new tape is inserted. Allowed only for the superuser.

       defcompression
              (SCSI tapes) Set the default compression state. The value -1 disables the default compression. The compression  state  set  by  compression
              overrides the default until a new tape is inserted. Allowed only for the superuser.

       sttimeout
              sets the normal timeout for the device. The value is given in seconds. Allowed only for the superuser.

       stlongtimeout
              sets the long timeout for the device. The value is given in seconds. Allowed only for the superuser.

       stsetcln
              set the cleaning request interpretation parameters.

       mt exits with a status of 0 if the operation succeeded, 1 if the operation or device name given was invalid, or 2 if the operation failed.

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              Print a usage message on standard output and exit successfully.

       -v, --version
              Print version of mt.

       -f, -t The  path  of  the tape device on  which to operate.  If neither of those options is given, and the environment variable TAPE is set, it is
              used.  Otherwise, a default device defined in the file /usr/include/sys/mtio.h is used.

AUTHOR
       The program is written by Kai Makisara <Kai.Makisara@kolumbus.fi>.

COPYRIGHT
       The program and the manual page are copyrighted by Kai Makisara, 1998-2008.  They can be distributed according to the GNU Copyleft.

SEE ALSO
